Publish minutes of 2025-07-31 meeting (#857)
hober/web-extensions: _minutes/2025-07-31-wecg.md

See [issue 531](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/531) for an explanation of this agenda format.

 * **Announcements** (2 minutes)
   * [Issue 843](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843): TPAC registration is open, we have ~12 hours of[ meeting time scheduled](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843#issuecomment-3140015582) across Monday and Thursday.
 * **Triage** (15 minutes)
   * [Issue 849](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/849): Inconsistency: native messaging size limit
   * [Issue 855](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/855): Proposal: Clarify the scale parameter for tabs.captureVisibleTab
   * [Issue 856](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/856): Inconsistency: browser.downloads.download API can ignore file name extension if MIME is known type
 * **Timely issues** (0 minutes)
   * N/A
 * **Check-in on existing issues** (20 minutes)
   * [Issue 762](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/762): DNR: Add excludedTopFrameDomains (and topFrameDomains) ([@lenacohen](https://github.com/lenacohen))
   * The outstanding comment from Oliver on https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/837 and see if Apple can take a look.

>  * **Open discussion**
>    * Follow up on https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/616 sidepanel content script injection (available on Firefox)
>    * DNR / Content Script compatibility with non-tab contexts (such as sidebars) (Maone)
>    * [PR 852](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/852#discussion_r2225631737): WPT update, also quick assertTrue discussion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **Open discussion**
   * PSA: A German appeals court is considering whether to ban adblockers on the grounds that they are creating derivative works of webpages ([golem.de](https://www.golem.de/news/urheberrecht-von-webseiten-bgh-haelt-unzulaessigkeit-von-adblockern-fuer-moeglich-2507-198676.html))
   * [Issue 616](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/616): Content script injection inconsistencies in the sidePanel
   * DNR / Content Script compatibility with non-tab contexts (such as sidebars) (Maone)
   * [PR 852](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/852#discussion_r2225631737): WPT update, also quick assertTrue discussion
   * [Issue 116 comment](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/116#issuecomment-3032442917): Proposal: stop adding `host_permissions` from `content_scripts`
   * [Pull 799 comment](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/799#discussion_r2080111012): Add `browser.permissions.canAccess()` proposal
```

 9. Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)
 10. Harsh Singh (Google Summer of Code)
 11. Jordan Spivack (Capital One)
 12. David Vaisbrud (LayerX)
 13. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)

## Meeting notes

[Issue 843](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843): TPAC registration is open, we have ~12 hours of [meeting time scheduled](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843#issuecomment-3140015582) across Monday and Thursday.

 * [simeon] TPAC registrations are open. The meeting schedule is also published; we have 12 hours of meeting time split over Monday and Thursday.

[Issue 849](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/849): Inconsistency: native messaging size limit

 * [simeon] Didn't we discuss this last time?
 * [rob] Chrome's perspective was missing; also in the meantime additional discussion happened on the issue.
 * [simeon] The author is asking for browsers to provide chunking so that native messaging limits are not exposed to extensions.
 * [rob] That's an assumption on the implementation, and not necessarily the technical reason.
 * [simeon] They'd like a higher limit.
 * [rob] 1 MB can be higher, but what limit would be good enough?

>  * [devlin] Heard of use case like JSON-encoding a video, in which case 64 MB is too small. Realistic use cases also include password stores, which could be large, and 1 MB would be too small. We could bump to 64 MB, and also have other ways to overcome IPC limits. But as the native messaging implementation is not optimal, we're concerned about the impact. And it also discourages. (..) Recommend using localhost instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [devlin] Heard of use case like JSON-encoding a video, in which case 64 MB is too small. Realistic use cases also include password stores, which could be large, and 1 MB would be too small. We could bump to 64 MB, and also have other ways to overcome IPC limits. But as the native messaging implementation is not optimal, we're concerned about the impact. And size limitations discourages using native messaging for these data-intensive use cases. Recommend using localhost & web transport mechanisms instead.
```

 * [rob] Aren't browsers locking down localhost access?
 * [devlin] Arguably, but this is in extensions. On the web the ability to run a native application is a sandbox escape, but it's acceptable in extensions.
 * [rob] Requires a server to be continuously running, a bit different than dropping a file in a location and letting the browser launch it.
 * [devlin] Mostly just trying to say that I'm not convinced increasing the native messaging limit is the right path.

>  * [rob] Are we willing to raise the limit from 1 MB (native app-to-browser) and 64 MB (browser-to-native app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [rob] Are we willing to raise the limit from 1 MB (native app-to-browser) and 64 MB (browser-to-native app) or possibly higher?
```

>  * [devlin] Hesitant to raise beyond 64MB because copying string buffers larger than that is nontrivial and has performance implications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [devlin] Hesitant to raise beyond 64 MB because copying string buffers larger than that is nontrivial and has performance implications.
```

>  * [rob] 64MB is a reasonable limit from extensions to native messaging host, but the opposite direction is 1MB. Are we in favor of raising that limit to 64MB?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [rob] 64 MB is a reasonable limit from extensions to native messaging host, but the opposite direction is 1 MB. Are we in favor of raising that limit to 64 MB?
```

 * [devlin] Have to look into why we are at 1 MB, but in principle amendable to raising the limit to 64 MB.
 * [kiara] 64 MB in either direction works for Safari, as long as 80 MB is not exceeded (due to xpc service limits).
 * **Consensus**: alignment on raising limit to 64 MB in either direction.
 * [rob] Do we want to set an environment variable or something to expose limits to native applications?
 * [tomislav] They can always test the limits manually, so there's no reason to hide this variable.

[Issue 855](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/855): Proposal: Clarify the scale parameter for tabs.captureVisibleTab

>  * [devlin] We added “rect” for visible reason, and noticed that “scale” does something different. Our implementation right now () uses “scale” to scale from device independent pixels to pixels, opposed to actually upscale the captured region.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure this is what was actually said, but it makes more sense to me than the current text.

```suggestion
 * [devlin] We added “rect” for a visible region, and noticed that “scale” does something different. Our implementation right now () uses “scale” to scale from device independent pixels to pixels, opposed to actually upscale the captured region.
```

 * [rob] Tomislav, I think you touched this last, do you know anything about it?
 * [tomislav] We use it as a scale parameter for dpi calculations.
 * [devlin] If you have device pixels and css pixels 1:1, and pass a scale of 2, what is the captured region in Firefox?
 * [tomislav] Should behave as if you manually changed the scale to 200%.
 * [devlin] In that case, would it change the captured region too?
 * [rob] That's strange. That would also imply reflow and rerender of the content, whereas this API is supposed to just capture what is displayed.
 * Action item: Tomislav to to investigate how the current implementation works and follow up on the bug.

[Issue 856](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/856): Inconsistency: browser.downloads.download API can ignore file name extension if MIME is known type

 * [rob] It seems the request is to be able to set a specific file name. Firefox's file name handling is more permissive than Chrome's. I know Chrome will rename the filename in more cases.
 * [devlin] I'm surprised that we strip the custom file extension. I don't know if there are extensions reliant on this behavior. What if the MIME type and file extension don't match?

>  * [rob] I wonder if this could be overridden using the onDetermineFilename event in Chrome. Firefox doesn't support this, but Chrome does. If you're concerned about existing extensions, we could introduce a parameter to explicitly change behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [rob] I wonder if this could be overridden using the onDeterminingFilename event in Chrome. Firefox doesn't support this, but Chrome does. If you're concerned about existing extensions, we could introduce a parameter to explicitly change behavior.
```

 * [devlin] Think we should see what we can do to gather more information about all the various scenarios, what all the browsers do, and follow up on a solution that works as broadly as possible.

>  * [rob] Could someone from Chrome look into whether the behavior is expected and/or find a crbug?

Reviewer: @oliverdunk or @rdcronin, did a Chromie respond to this question? (cc @Rob--W)

Reviewer 2: I've filed a bug: https://issues.chromium.org/437316556. We will try to look at this but it might not be something we get to immediately.
